# Citi Bike Analysis
Three quick observations can be made from the data collected between December 2018 and Aug 2019 taken from the Citi Bike data source.

1) When it comes to the maps of most used bike terminals you start to see that the most commonly used stations are those that are near transit terminals. The clearest example are the stations around Grand Central Station and Penn Station. This is true for both start trips and end trips. This isn't surprising since commuters are coming and going from the same places often. However, when you turn off the "Subscriber" user type you see a whole new story. The "Customers", defined as people who just buy one time passes for 3 or 24 hours, mostly congregate around the Central Park Stations. The reason you don't see this pattern when all users are visible is because the largest stations for Customers only sees around 20,000 rentals. Whereas the most popular stations used by Subscribers get closer to 90,000 rentals during the same period.

2) In the Demo breakdown one think pops out very quickly. The largest age group by far is 50 years old. Why could this possibly be? Well that group only exists when the gender is "Unknown" and is most prevalent because of the "Customer" user group. My best guess is that when age isn’t known the system just defaults to "Birthyear" being 1969. So, if we remove the "Unknown" gender group we'll get a better view of gender demographics. Now we can see that Citi Bike's customer base is largely made up of men between 20-40 years. Men make up roughly 70% of customers overall. This gap becomes larger if you're just looking at "Subscribers". However, if we look at just "Customers" we see that the gap has been closing over time to the point where in August of 2019 women made up almost 40% of the customer base.

3) First things first, the basic info shows some interesting splits between Subscriber riders and Customer riders. Customer rental peak on Saturdays and Sundays, while Subscribers see the highest rentals during the week. Then looking at hourly details you see that Subscribers peak hours are 8am and 5pm. Again, this shows that these Subscribers are most likely commuters who start and end at the same stations and are riding from a transportation hub to and from work. The interesting data in the set comes in the form of the monthly ride breakdown. There is a strange data point that made me think I had some errors in the data that I had pulled from the Citi Bike site or that something had gone wrong when I concatenated the csv files in python. There is a steady increase in rides until August 2019 where we see a sharp decline to rider levels below that of rides in the middle of the winter. Again I thought that something must be wrong with the data because why would these levels drop off so fast. Instead of just removing the data I decided to just do a qucik google search and it looks like I wasn't the only one who noticed, https://nyc.streetsblog.org/2018/09/26/its-not-your-imagination-something-is-seriously-wrong-with-citi-bike-right-now/.
